Most people talk about target CPA or
maximize conversions or maximize
conversion value, but the actual
conversation for e-commerce should be
target ROS versus maximize conversion
value. The conversation is almost never
had. And today we're going to have that
conversation. For e-commerce, there are
two main bidding methods. There's
maximize conversion value where you give
smart bidding a budget and it'll spend
the budget on segments that produce the
highest conversion value. I say segments
because it's called keywords, called
products, called search terms, you call
audiences, devices. I call them segments
and all it's all the same thing. Then on
the other hand, you have target rows
where you give smart bidding a restraint
in the form of a ROS target. It still
has the same budget restraint, but now
it also has to adhere to a ROS target.
And it's this last sentence that causes
confusion for most people because some
people will say that maximize conversion
value is the best approach because it
allows smart bidding to spend without
any constraints. Sounds good, but
they're absolutely wrong. So in this
video, I'm going to go through why
maximize conversion value opens up a
list of other issues and that you
actually want to put restraints in the
system. And I'll talk about a couple
scenarios where it might still be a good
idea to run maximize conversion value
because as we all say it all depends,
right? So the the reason why some people
like maximize conversion value is partly
because it sounds good. Hey Google,
here's a budget. Now maximize my
conversion value. Sounds good. It makes
it seem it's a little bit better way to
scale Google Ads account. But target ROS
also maximizes your conversion value. It
just does it while saying while adhering
to a ROS target. Maximize conversion
value only adheres to a budget target
budget budget target which does open up
other issues. Another reason why
maximize conversion value is
misunderstood is because it goes against
the user behavior in Google. Let me
repeat that. You don't want to spend the
same thing every single day. You might
want to do that on meta, but you
definitely don't want to do that with
Google ads. The problem with the this
whole budget
constraint with and maximize conversion
value is that searches on Google differs
from day to day and week to week and
month to month for that matter. Telling
Google to spend the same thing every
day, no matter how much demand there is,
meaning no matter how many searchers
there are, makes little sense. On days
or weeks with low demand, you'll start
seeing smart bidding spend your budget
by increasing the CPC. As the green line
goes up with uh goes down with demand,
then Google has to increase your CBC to
spend your budget. And it means that
we'll get a lower ROS because you're
basically paying the paying more for for
less
clicks. That's actually the exact
opposite of what we want on days with
high demand. We want to ride the wave to
demand. We want to ride the wave of
demand to increase the volume, not lower
our bids because our budget isn't ready
for the increase in demand. Target ROS
on the other hand looks at it a
completely opposite way. As long as the
target rowers can buy the same click at
the same price, then it'll trust the
historical data that that will drive the
same ROS. Target ROS doesn't care if
there's a thousand people searching or
10,000 people searching in a day. It'll
spend the same per click as it has
deemed optimal to hit your ROS target,
which means we're able to ride a wave of
demand on days and weeks with high
demand and be protected when there are
fewer searches and avoid Google
increasing our CPCs when there aren't
enough people to actually fulfill our
budget that day. So the way that this
works is that if your cost per click is
87 cents and you're seeing a rose of
700% then it shouldn't matter if a,000
people are searching or 10,000. To put
another way, if the system is
consistently profitable at 87 cents per
click, then the more searchers you
capture, the better. Think of it like a
retail store. the more you should be
able to sell without worrying about
hitting a ceiling on your budget or
however many people come into a store.
Whether or not you spend $870 or
$8700, the ROS will remain stable. So,
the budget should not limit the
campaign's ability to scale with demand.
Now, then then my question to you, which
do you actually prefer? Do you want
smart bidding to spend as much money
every day, the same amount of money
every day, essentially changing your
price per click based on how many people
are searching for your product or you
want to do it the smart way, which is
spend as much as you can while still
hitting the royal target? The the answer
is obviously pretty pretty simple. The
biggest challenge with maximize
conversion value is that it means you
have to add an extra component in the
way that you manage your bids. Which
means you have to try to balance the
correct budget to the demand there is on
a I don't want to say a daily basis but
at least on a weekly basis. If we take
this example here is that you're running
with a pretty stable demand and all of a
sudden you start having lower demand
which means that Google is going to
start spiking or increasing your CPCs
and that means your rows goes down. The
reason why your ROS goes down is that
your conversion rate doesn't change as
your CPCs goes up or the demand goes
down. So as you're paying more per click
you are in effect becoming less and less
profitable. If we take if we take
another opposite scenario where we where
we all of a sudden get hit by high
demand and we don't change the budget
then Google is going to start decreasing
our CPCs which means that our rowers
will go up yes but our spend will remain
the same which means that the budget
will remain the same sorry which means
the revenue will remain the same the
entire way through and these are best
case scenario. There are also more like
less frequent scenarios where let's say
smart bidding is predicting the demand
wrong because it it's not going to get
it right all the time. It's always
reactionary then it can go into the week
or the day with a with the wrong bid and
if the if if the bid is too low then it
will result in fewer clicks and less
revenue than if you had had used target
rows. If the bid is too high it will
result in a worse row than if you had
used target rowers. So I would say the
last example here is like maximize
conversion is somewhat good at
navigating it. So I don't want to make
that as the biggest thing but there are
plenty examples where I've seen this go
wrong. Target ROS on the other hand is a
lot more steady. So let me show you in
in in a real account the way that that
works. So you can see here that this is
summer month. We have conversion value
which revenue goes more or less directly
with the increase in cost. If we change
conver cost with conversion value by
cost, then we can see that hey, it
actually stays fairly the same. So where
it starts out at 100,000 in revenue and
and 545 in in ROAS, it ends up at 667
and double the
revenue. Fairly simple. It like ROAS
stays pretty much the same. And that's
basically what we want. Yes. Are there
days and weeks where it's not hitting
the exact optimal bid? Of course, it's
the same thing if you run it manually.
It's the same thing if you run it
maximize commercial value. It will get
it wrong sometimes, but all in all,
trying to navigate the optimal budget on
top of all of this for a specific day or
week in order to hit your desired ROS
target makes it extremely difficult.
Now, so let's discuss how do you get the
most out of target rows. There's three
things. One is setting the right target.
Basically, if your target ROS, if target
ROS doesn't work for you, then you're
most likely because you're not setting
the right target. For some businesses,
this is a business constraint. If you
have a 10% margin, then you basically
need to set a 10 1,000% ROS target just
to break even. And if you can't hit that
ROS target, then the system will not bid
for you. So in that case, if you've been
running with a maximized conversion
value instead, then yes, it will spend,
but it's going to spend inefficiently
and it's not going to hit a thousand%
ROS. Then I love to use bit strategies.
Bit strategies is this thing where if
you're going through going back into
account tools, bit budgets, bidding, and
bit strategies. We have different
portfolio bit strategies. The way it
works is that we can group campaigns
together. It gives us the ability to set
a max CPC, a minimum CPC. It allows us
to see okay what will if we take the
last uh 30 days here we can see okay
what is our rowers week by week what's
the target row has been up against what
the actual rowers has actually been it
uses this projected row which means okay
we're hitting 652 for the last 30 days
but it's actually estimating we're
hitting 7 676 which is exactly our
average target row which is funny if you
start looking at the last seven days
because we have some conversion lag Then
we can see, hey, it's only hitting 514.
What the heck? Why is it that? But we
can see, okay, it opens up. We're only
going to go up to 571. So based on this,
we're not going to hit the target at all
for the last seven days, which means we
might want to do something. Max CPCs,
seasonal bit adjustments, might want to
do some other things because it doesn't
look like we're going to hit the target
that we actually want. But all this just
means that we get better insights to
actually work with smart bidding. And
the second thing is that in this case
with the search campaign, we have 40
campaigns all lumped together, which
means that we give more data to smart
bidding. And more data is not just the
system works better. No, the key point
why more data works better is that smart
bidding is a can then react faster to
changes in ROS, which means less wasted
Aspen and less opportunity cost, which
means that you probably weren't bidding
high enough when demand actually hit.
bid strategies or portfolio. Bit
strategies, they keep changing name
allow you to combine data across
multiple campaigns which gives it more
data which is great. Then you want to
change your the third thing is you want
to change your target ROS at key times.
Every single time you lower your ROS
target, you're telling smart bidding to
go explore, find more volume, buy me
more traffic. And every time you do the
opposite, every single time you increase
your ROS target, you're telling Smarty
Betting, tighten up, become more
efficient. And there are times to do
either throughout the year. Even if you
basically want to have the same ROS all
year long, then decreasing your target
ahead of a peak season or right in the
beginning of peak season can help you
dramatically increase your volume. And
sometimes you'll still hit the same ROS
target for a couple weeks or a couple of
days before it starts realizing, hey,
we're not hitting the target. Hey, we
have a lot more rows. We can lower our
rowers a lot more. Then we'll start
bidding way too high. So, there's a way
to work with it. But constantly changing
your ROS target. Okay, constantly is too
much, but once in a while it's great.
Now, we want to talk about a couple
scenarios where maximize conversion
value actually makes sense because it
does make sense. One is if your boss is
budget budget ccentric and I say boss or
organization because if you had the
choice, you should definitely change it.
So this is not your choice. But if the
goal is to spend the budget on a monthly
basis and it is much more important to
accurately spend the budget than it is
to spend the budget in the most
efficient way, then maximize conversion
value is the best way. Some of you might
be like, "What? These people exist?"
Yep. There's a lot of them. There's a
lot of organizations where if you come
in and you spend 10% more than you were
allowed to, you're going to get hit over
the head. You're going to get a written
written warning. Three times you're out.
If you find yourself having issues with
getting campaigns to spend even when you
decrease your rows target, sometimes
it's easier just to go to maximize
conversion value because it will make
your campaign spend won't spend it
efficiently. But once you then gotten
some spend, you gotten the data in,
that's when you can then move on to
target rows and tell it be more
efficient, work with this data that I
have. The third example is if is another
example of bypassing the reward target
is to reset an account with a low amount
of conversions. So let's say your
tracking malfunctioned or the conversion
rate on your site tanked. You've since
fixed it, but Google it just can't
figure it out. It can't come back to the
it can't get back to the same levels as
before the issue happened. Basically
going in and saying, "Hey, we used to
spend $1,000 per day. Now we're only
spending 600." going in and saying,
"Okay, we put a budget at $1,000 per day
and we put maximize conversion value."
It's going to force Google to go,
"Here's your restraint free. Go nuts."
This can be a good way to reset the data
collection, especially if you're not
used to or comfortable working with
manual bidding. But that's very all this
is very very different from maximize
conversion value being your goto bidding
mechanism. So to summarize the key
learnings from today, so you want to
maximize conversion value. Uh you want
to use that in very specific cases, but
it sounds much better on paper than it
actually works. And it's less effective
in scaling Google ad accounts than
target rows because with target rows, we
can actually ride the demand. So trying
to predict demand on Google is basically
impossible, which means you're always a
step behind when trying to set the
accurate budget, which means you're
either bidding too high or bidding too
low to get that perfect row and maximize
your revenue
despite it actually being called
maximize conversion value. And then we
go like the third one is target rows
allows you to write the wave of demand
while you're still hitting the same rows
target. It's really the biggest takeaway
from today. And then if you are working
with target ros, remember to just change
the targets. It helps you improve
volume, helps you become more efficient.
And I would highly recommend you always
do that. So I hope you I hope I hope you
liked it. Remember to subscribe for more
tips. We get a new video out every
single week. Remember to comment. Did I
get something wrong? Did I get
everything right? What would you like to
hear from me moving forward? And I'll d
into that. But we have one video per
week and I'm hope to see you